Q5. What is a 􀃕nal method ?
Ans. It’s a method which cannot be overridden. Compiler throws an error if we try to override a method which has been declared 􀃕nal in the parent
class.

Q7. What are Default Methods?
Ans. With Java 8, We can provide method de􀃕nitions in the Interfaces that gets carried down the classes implementing that interface in case they are
not overridden by the Class. Keyword “default” is used to mark the default method

Q14. Explain public static void main(String args[])
Ans.Here public is an access modi􀃕er, which means that this method is accessible by any class.
static – static keyword tells that this method can be accessed without creating the instance of the class.
void – this main method returns no value.
main – It is the name of the method.
String args[] – The args is an array of String type. This contains the command line arguments that we can pass while running the program.

Q23. What is static block?
Ans.A static block gets executed at the time of class loading. They are used for initializing static variables.

Q3. What’s the purpose of Static methods and static variables?
Ans: When there is a requirement to share a method or a variable between multiple objects of a class instead of creating separate copies for each
object, we use static keyword to make a method or variable shared for all object

Q15. Can main() method in Java can return any data?
Ans: In java, main() method can’t return any data and hence, it’s always declared with a void return type.

Q21. Can we declare the main method of our class as private?
Ans: In java, main method must be public static in order to run any application correctly. If main method is declared as private, developer won’t get
any compilation error however, it will not get executed and will give a runtime error.

Q22. How can we pass argument to a function by reference instead of pass by value?
Ans: In java, we can pass argument to a function only by value and not by reference.

Q41. How we can execute any code even before main method?
Ans: If we want to execute any statements before even creation of objects at load time of class, we can use a static block of code in the class. Any
statements inside this static block of code will get executed once at the time of loading the class even before creation of objects in the main method.

Q47. Can we have two methods in a class with the same name?
Ans: We can de􀃕ne two methods in a class with the same name but with di􀃡erent number/type of parameters. Which method is to get invoked will
depend upon the parameters passed.
For example in the class below we have two print methods with same name but di􀃡erent parameters. Depending upon the parameters, appropriate
one will be called:
Q61. A person says that he compiled a java class successfully without even having a main method in it? Is
it possible?
Ans: main method is an entry point of Java class and is required for execution of the program however; a class gets compiled successfully even if it
doesn’t have a main method. It can’t be run though.

Q62. Can we call a non-static method from inside a static method?
Ans: Non-Static methods are owned by objects of a class and have object level scope and in order to call the non-Static methods from a static block
(like from a static main method), an object of the class needs to be created 􀃕rst. Then using object reference, these methods can be invoked.


Q79. Can we have any other return type than void for main method?
Ans: No, Java class main method can have only void return type for the program to get successfully executed.
Nonetheless , if you absolutely must return a value to at the completion of main method , you can use System.exit(int status)
Q92. If an application has multiple classes in it, is it okay to have a main method in more than one class?
Ans: If there is main method in more than one classes in a java application, it won’t cause any issue as entry point for any application will be a speci􀃕c
class and code will start from the main method of that particular class only.

15)What is method in java ?
It contains the executable body that can be applied to the specific object of the class.
Method includes method name, parameters or arguments and return type and a body of executable code

17) Why main() method is public, static and void in java ?
public : “public” is an access specifier which can be used outside the class. When main method is declared
public it means it can be used outside class.
static : To call a method we require object. Sometimes it may be required to call a method without the
help of object. Then we declare that method as static. JVM calls the main() method without creating
object by declaring keyword static.
void : void return type is used when a method does’nt return any value . main() method does’nt return
any value, so main() is declared as void.

18) Explain about main() method in java ?
Main() method is starting point of execution for all java applications.
String args[] are array of string objects we need to pass from command line arguments.
Every Java application must have atleast one main method.


20) What is difference between length and length() method in java ?
length() : In String class we have length() method which is used to return the number of characters in
string.
Ex : String str = “Hello World”;
System.out.println(str.length());
Str.length() will return 11 characters including space.
length : we have length instance variable in arrays which will return the number of values or objects in
array.
For example :
String days[]={” Sun”,”Mon”,”wed”,”thu”,”fri”,”sat”};
Will return 6 since the number of values in days array is 6.