QUESTIONS
1.What is polymorphism in Java?
2.Explain the two types of polymorphism in Java.
3.Can you override a static method in Java?
4.Explain the concept of "upcasting" in Java.
5.Explain the difference between compile-time polymorphism and runtime polymorphism in Java.
6.What is the significance of the @Override annotation in Java, especially in the context of
polymorphism?
7.Discuss the importance of the "IS-A" relationship in the context of polymorphism. How does it
relate to inheritance?
8.How does polymorphism enhance code flexibility and maintainability in Java programs?
9.Discuss the concept of functional interfaces and how they contribute to achieving polymorphism
in Java through the introduction of lambda expressions.
10.How does the introduction of default methods in interfaces impact polymorphism in Java?
Provide an example.
11.Explain the limitations and challenges associated with achieving polymorphism in a
multithreaded environment in Java.
12.Explain the concept of "adapters" and how they can be used to achieve polymorphism in Java.
Provide an example where adapters enhance code flexibility.
13.What is encapsulation in Java?
14.Explain the benefits of encapsulation in Java.
15.Why is it important to make variables private in a class?
16.What are getter and setter methods, and how do they relate to encapsulation?
17.Explain the concept of data hiding in encapsulation.
18.Can encapsulation be achieved without using private access modifiers?
19.Explain the concept of an immutable class. How does it relate to encapsulation?
20.Discuss the challenges and potential issues associated with overusing encapsulation.
21.How does encapsulation relate to the principle of information hiding?
22.Explain the difference between encapsulation and abstraction.
23.How does encapsulation contribute to the principle of "loose coupling" in software design?
24.Explain the difference between encapsulation and encapsulation in Java.
25.How does encapsulation contribute to the concept of "state encapsulation" in Java classes?
26.Discuss the differences between encapsulation and data hiding.
27.Why is it recommended to use getter and setter methods instead of making variables public in a
class?
28.Explain the concept of "package-private" access in Java and how it relates to data hiding within
a package.
29.What are different ways to achieve or implement polymorphism in Java?
30.What are the differences between Polymorphism and Inheritance in Java?
31.How Java compiler differentiate between methods in Compile time Polymorphism?
32.How to achieve/implement dynamic polymorphism in Java?
33.What is Binding in Java?
34. What is Static binding in Java?
35.How Java compiler performs static binding?
36.What is the dynamic binding?
37.What is the difference between late and early binding?
38.How JVM performs dynamic binding in Java?
39.Is it possible to achieve polymorphism using data members in Java?
40.What is constructor overloading?
41.What happens if two methods have different return types but share the same name and signature?
42.How does the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) handle encapsulation at runtime?
43.Explain the concept of "heap memory" and how encapsulation influences the allocation and
deallocation of objects in the heap.
44.Can you give some examples of when runtime polymorphism may not work as expected?
45.Explain the memory implications of method overriding and dynamic method dispatch in
polymorphic scenarios.
===================================================
Q4. What is Polymorphism in Java ?
Ans. Polymorphism means the condition of occurring in several di􀃡erent forms.
Polymorphism in Java is achieved in two manners
1. Static polymorphism is the polymorphic resolution identi􀃕ed at compile time and is achieved through function overloading whereas
2. Dynamic polymorphism is the polymorphic resolution identi􀃕ed at runtime and is achieved through method overriding

Q11. Can we override static method?
Ans.We cannot override static methods. Static methods are belongs to class, not belongs
to object. Inheritance will not be applicable for class members
Q12. What is the di􀃡erence between super() and this()?
Ans.super() is used to call super class constructor, whereas this() used to call constructors in the same class.

Q20. Can we overload a method by just changing the return type and without changing the signature of
method?
Ans.No, We cannot do this. To overload a method, the method signature must be di􀃡erent, return type doesn’t play any role in method overloading.

Q21. What is static and dynamic binding in Java?
Ans.Binding refers to the linking of method call to its body. A binding that happens at compile time is known as static binding while binding at runtime
is known as dynamic binding.

Q29. Can we override static methods of a class?
Ans: We cannot override static methods. Static methods belong to a class and not to individual objects and are resolved at the time of compilation
(not at runtime).Even if we try to override static method,we will not get an complitaion error,nor the impact of overriding when running the code.
Q49. What’s the bene􀃕t of using inheritance?
Ans: Key bene􀃕t of using inheritance is reusability of code as inheritance enables sub-classes to reuse the code of its super class. Polymorphism
(Extensibility ) is another great bene􀃕t which allow new functionality to be introduced without e􀃡ecting existing derived classes.


Q60. Can we override a method by using same method name and arguments but di􀃡erent return types?
Ans: The basic condition of method overriding is that method name, arguments as well as return type must be exactly same as is that of the method
being overridden. Hence using a di􀃡erent return type doesn’t override a method.

8) What is method overloading in java ?
A class having two or more methods with same name but with different arguments then we say that those
methods are overloaded. Static polymorphism is achieved in java using method overloading.
Method overloading is used when we want the methods to perform similar tasks but with different inputs
or values. When an overloaded method is invoked java first checks the method name, and the number of
arguments ,type of arguments; based on this compiler executes this method.
Compiler decides which method to call at compile time. By using overloading static polymorphism or static
binding can be achieved in java.
Note : Return type is not part of method signature. we may have methods with different return types but
return type alone is not sufficient to call a method in java.

31) Difference between overriding and overloading in java?
Overriding Overloading
In overriding method names must be same In overloading method names must be same
Argument List must be same Argument list must be different atleast order of
arguments.
Return type can be same or we can return covariant
type. From 1.5 covariant types are allowed
Return type can be different in overloading.
We cant increase the level of checked exceptions.
No restrictions for unchecked exceptions
In overloading different exceptions can be thrown.
A method can only be overridden in subclass A method can be overloaded in same class or
subclass
Private,static and final variables cannot be
overridden.
Private , static and final variables can be
overloaded.
In overriding which method is called is decided at
runtime based on the type of object referenced at
run time
In overloading which method to call is decided at
compile time based on reference type.
Overriding is also known as Runtime polymorphism,
dynamic polymorphism or late binding
Overloading is also known as Compile time
polymorphism, static polymorphism or early
binding.